nearly ten years had passed since the dursleys had woken up to find their nephew on the front step , but privet drive had hardly changed at all . the sun rose on the same tidy front gardens and lit up the brass number four on the dursleys ' front door ; it crept into their living room , which was almost exactly the same as it had been on the night when mr. dursley had seen that fateful news report about the owls . only the photographs on the mantelpiece really showed how much time had passed . ten years ago , there had been lots of pictures of what looked like a large pink beach ball wearing different-colored bonnets -- but dudley dursley was no longer a baby , and now the photographs showed a large blond boy riding his first bicycle , on a carousel at the fair , playing a computer game with his father , being hugged and kissed by his mother . the room held no sign at all that another boy lived in the house , too . yet harry potter was still there , asleep at the moment , but not for long . his aunt petunia was awake and it was her shrill voice that made the first noise of the day . up ! get up ! now ! harry woke with a start . his aunt rapped on the door again . up ! she screeched . harry heard her walking toward the kitchen and then the sound of the frying pan being put on the stove . he rolled onto his back and tried to remember the dream he had been having . it had been a good one . there had been a flying motorcycle in it . he had a funny feeling he 'd had the same dream before . his aunt was back outside the door . are you up yet ? she demanded . nearly , said harry . well , get a move on , i want you to look after the bacon . and do n't you dare let it burn , i want everything perfect on duddy 's birthday . harry groaned . what did you say ? his aunt snapped through the door . nothing , nothing ... dudley 's birthday -- how could he have forgotten ? harry got slowly out of bed and started looking for socks . he found a pair under his bed and , after pulling a spider off one of them , put them on . harry was used to spiders , because the cupboard under the stairs was full of them , and that was where he slept . when he was dressed he went down the hall into the kitchen . the table was almost hidden beneath all dudley 's birthday presents . it looked as though dudley had gotten the new computer he wanted , not to mention the second television and the racing bike . exactly why dudley wanted a racing bike was a mystery to harry , as dudley was very fat and hated exercise -- unless of course it involved punching somebody . dudley 's favorite punching bag was harry , but he could n't often catch him . harry did n't look it , but he was very fast . perhaps it had something to do with living in a dark cupboard , but harry had always been small and skinny for his age . he looked even smaller and skinnier than he really was because all he had to wear were old clothes of dudley 's , and dudley was about four times bigger than he was . harry had a thin face , knobbly knees , black hair , and bright green eyes . he wore round glasses held together with a lot of scotch tape because of all the times dudley had punched him on the nose . the only thing harry liked about his own appearance was a very thin scar on his forehead that was shaped like a bolt of lightning . he had had it as long as he could remember , and the first question he could ever remember asking his aunt petunia was how he had gotten it . in the car crash when your parents died , she had said . and do n't ask questions . do n't ask questions -- that was the first rule for a quiet life with the dursleys . uncle vernon entered the kitchen as harry was turning over the bacon . comb your hair ! he barked , by way of a morning greeting . about once a week , uncle vernon looked over the top of his newspaper and shouted that harry needed a haircut . harry must have had more haircuts than the rest of the boys in his class put together , but it made no difference , his hair simply grew that way -- all over the place . harry was frying eggs by the time dudley arrived in the kitchen with his mother . dudley looked a lot like uncle vernon . he had a large pink face , not much neck , small , watery blue eyes , and thick blond hair that lay smoothly on his thick , fat head . aunt petunia often said that dudley looked like a baby angel -- harry often said that dudley looked like a pig in a wig . harry put the plates of egg and bacon on the table , which was difficult as there was n't much room . dudley , meanwhile , was counting his presents . his face fell . thirty-six , he said , looking up at his mother and father . that 's two less than last year . darling , you have n't counted auntie marge 's present , see , it 's here under this big one from mommy and daddy . all right , thirty-seven then , said dudley , going red in the face . harry , who could see a huge dudley tantrum coming on , began wolfing down his bacon as fast as possible in case dudley turned the table over . aunt petunia obviously scented danger , too , because she said quickly , and we 'll buy you another two presents while we 're out today . how 's that , popkin ? two more presents . is that all right ? dudley thought for a moment . it looked like hard work . finally he said slowly , so i 'll have thirty ... thirty ... thirty-nine , sweetums , said aunt petunia . oh . dudley sat down heavily and grabbed the nearest parcel . all right then . uncle vernon chuckled . little tyke wants his money 's worth , just like his father . 'atta boy , dudley ! he ruffled dudley 's hair . at that moment the telephone rang and aunt petunia went to answer it while harry and uncle vernon watched dudley unwrap the racing bike , a video camera , a remote control airplane , sixteen new computer games , and a vcr . he was ripping the paper off a gold wristwatch when aunt petunia came back from the telephone looking both angry and worried . bad news , vernon , she said . mrs. figg 's broken her leg . she ca n't take him . she jerked her head in harry 's direction . dudley 's mouth fell open in horror , but harry 's heart gave a leap . every year on dudley 's birthday , his parents took him and a friend out for the day , to adventure parks , hamburger restaurants , or the movies . every year , harry was left behind with mrs. figg , a mad old lady who lived two streets away . harry hated it there . the whole house smelled of cabbage and mrs. figg made him look at photographs of all the cats she 'd ever owned . now what ? said aunt petunia , looking furiously at harry as though he 'd planned this . harry knew he ought to feel sorry that mrs. figg had broken her leg , but it was n't easy when he reminded himself it would be a whole year before he had to look at tibbies , snowy , mr. paws , and tufty again . we could phone marge , uncle vernon suggested . do n't be silly , vernon , she hates the boy . the dursleys often spoke about harry like this , as though he was n't there -- or rather , as though he was something very nasty that could n't understand them , like a slug . what about what's-her-name , your friend -- yvonne ? on vacation in majorca , snapped aunt petunia . you could just leave me here , harry put in hopefully ( he 'd be able to watch what he wanted on television for a change and maybe even have a go on dudley 's computer ) . aunt petunia looked as though she 'd just swallowed a lemon . and come back and find the house in ruins ? she snarled . i wo n't blow up the house , said harry , but they were n't listening . i suppose we could take him to the zoo , said aunt petunia slowly , ... and leave him in the car . ... that cars new , he 's not sitting in it alone . ... dudley began to cry loudly . in fact , he was n't really crying -- it had been years since he 'd really cried -- but he knew that if he screwed up his face and wailed , his mother would give him anything he wanted . dinky duddydums , do n't cry , mummy wo n't let him spoil your special day ! she cried , flinging her arms around him . i ... do n't ... want ... him ... t-t-to come ! dudley yelled between huge , pretend sobs . he always sp- spoils everything ! he shot harry a nasty grin through the gap in his mothers arms . just then , the doorbell rang -- oh , good lord , they 're here ! said aunt petunia frantically -- and a moment later , dudley 's best friend , piers polkiss , walked in with his mother . piers was a scrawny boy with a face like a rat . he was usually the one who held people 's arms behind their backs while dudley hit them . dudley stopped pretending to cry at once . half an hour later , harry , who could n't believe his luck , was sitting in the back of the dursleys ' car with piers and dudley , on the way to the zoo for the first time in his life . his aunt and uncle had n't been able to think of anything else to do with him , but before they 'd left , uncle vernon had taken harry aside . i 'm warning you , he had said , putting his large purple face right up close to harry 's , i 'm warning you now , boy -- any funny business , anything at all -- and you 'll be in that cupboard from now until christmas . i 'm not going to do anything , said harry , honestly but uncle vernon did n't believe him . no one ever did . the problem was , strange things often happened around harry and it was just no good telling the dursleys he did n't make them happen . once , aunt petunia , tired of harry coming back from the barbers looking as though he had n't been at all , had taken a pair of kitchen scissors and cut his hair so short he was almost bald except for his bangs , which she left to hide that horrible scar . dudley had laughed himself silly at harry , who spent a sleepless night imagining school the next day , where he was already laughed at for his baggy clothes and taped glasses . next morning , however , he had gotten up to find his hair exactly as it had been before aunt petunia had sheared it off . he had been given a week in his cupboard for this , even though he had tried to explain that he could n't explain how it had grown back so quickly . another time , aunt petunia had been trying to force him into a revolting old sweater of dudley 's ( brown with orange puff balls ) . the harder she tried to pull it over his head , the smaller it seemed to become , until finally it might have fitted a hand puppet , but certainly would n't fit harry . aunt petunia had decided it must have shrunk in the wash and , to his great relief , harry was n't punished . on the other hand , he 'd gotten into terrible trouble for being found on the roof of the school kitchens . dudley 's gang had been chasing him as usual when , as much to harry 's surprise as anyone else 's , there he was sitting on the chimney . the dursleys had received a very angry letter from harry 's headmistress telling them harry had been climbing school buildings . but all he 'd tried to do ( as he shouted at uncle vernon through the locked door of his cupboard ) was jump behind the big trash cans outside the kitchen doors . harry supposed that the wind must have caught him in mid-jump . but today , nothing was going to go wrong . it was even worth being with dudley and piers to be spending the day somewhere that was n't school , his cupboard , or mrs. figg 's cabbage-smelling living room . while he drove , uncle vernon complained to aunt petunia . he liked to complain about things : people at work , harry , the council , harry , the bank , and harry were just a few of his favorite subjects . this morning , it was motorcycles . ... roaring along like maniacs , the young hoodlums , he said , as a motorcycle overtook them . i had a dream about a motorcycle , said harry , remembering suddenly . it was flying . uncle vernon nearly crashed into the car in front . he turned right around in his seat and yelled at harry , his face like a gigantic beet with a mustache : motorcycles dont fly ! dudley and piers sniggered . i know they do n't , said harry . it was only a dream . but he wished he had n't said anything . if there was one thing the dursleys hated even more than his asking questions , it was his talking about anything acting in a way it should n't , no matter if it was in a dream or even a cartoon -- they seemed to think he might get dangerous ideas . it was a very sunny saturday and the zoo was crowded with families . the dursleys bought dudley and piers large chocolate ice creams at the entrance and then , because the smiling lady in the van had asked harry what he wanted before they could hurry him away , they bought him a cheap lemon ice pop . it was n't bad , either , harry thought , licking it as they watched a gorilla scratching its head who looked remarkably like dudley , except that it was n't blond . harry had the best morning he 'd had in a long time . he was careful to walk a little way apart from the dursleys so that dudley and piers , who were starting to get bored with the animals by lunchtime , would n't fall back on their favorite hobby of hitting him . they ate in the zoo restaurant , and when dudley had a tantrum because his knickerbocker glory did n't have enough ice cream on top , uncle vernon bought him another one and harry was allowed to finish the first . harry felt , afterward , that he should have known it was all too good to last . after lunch they went to the reptile house . it was cool and dark in there , with lit windows all along the walls . behind the glass , all sorts of lizards and snakes were crawling and slithering over bits of wood and stone . dudley and piers wanted to see huge , poisonous cobras and thick , man-crushing pythons . dudley quickly found the largest snake in the place . it could have wrapped its body twice around uncle vernon 's car and crushed it into a trash can -- but at the moment it did n't look in the mood . in fact , it was fast asleep . dudley stood with his nose pressed against the glass , staring at the glistening brown coils . make it move , he whined at his father . uncle vernon tapped on the glass , but the snake did n't budge . do it again , dudley ordered . uncle vernon rapped the glass smartly with his knuckles , but the snake just snoozed on . this is boring , dudley moaned . he shuffled away . harry moved in front of the tank and looked intently at the snake . he would n't have been surprised if it had died of boredom itself -- no company except stupid people drumming their fingers on the glass trying to disturb it all day long . it was worse than having a cupboard as a bedroom , where the only visitor was aunt petunia hammering on the door to wake you up ; at least he got to visit the rest of the house . the snake suddenly opened its beady eyes . slowly , very slowly , it raised its head until its eyes were on a level with harry 's . it winked . harry stared . then he looked quickly around to see if anyone was watching . they were n't . he looked back at the snake and winked , too . the snake jerked its head toward uncle vernon and dudley , then raised its eyes to the ceiling . it gave harry a look that said quite plainly : i get that all the time . i know , harry murmured through the glass , though he was n't sure the snake could hear him . it must be really annoying . the snake nodded vigorously . where do you come from , anyway ? harry asked . the snake jabbed its tail at a little sign next to the glass . harry peered at it . boa constrictor , brazil . was it nice there ? the boa constrictor jabbed its tail at the sign again and harry read on : this specimen was bred in the zoo . oh , i see -- so you 've never been to brazil ? as the snake shook its head , a deafening shout behind harry made both of them jump . dudley ! mr. dursley ! come and look at this snake ! you wont believe what it 's doing ! dudley came waddling toward them as fast as he could . out of the way , you , he said , punching harry in the ribs . caught by surprise , harry fell hard on the concrete floor . what came next happened so fast no one saw how it happened -- one second , piers and dudley were leaning right up close to the glass , the next , they had leapt back with howls of horror . harry sat up and gasped ; the glass front of the boa constrictor 's tank had vanished . the great snake was uncoiling itself rapidly , slithering out onto the floor . people throughout the reptile house screamed and started running for the exits . as the snake slid swiftly past him , harry could have sworn a low , hissing voice said , brazil , here i come . ... thanksss , amigo . the keeper of the reptile house was in shock . but the glass , he kept saying , where did the glass go ? the zoo director himself made aunt petunia a cup of strong , sweet tea while he apologized over and over again . piers and dudley could only gibber . as far as harry had seen , the snake had n't done anything except snap playfully at their heels as it passed , but by the time they were all back in uncle vernon 's car , dudley was telling them how it had nearly bitten off his leg , while piers was swearing it had tried to squeeze him to death . but worst of all , for harry at least , was piers calming down enough to say , harry was talking to it , were n't you , harry ? uncle vernon waited until piers was safely out of the house before starting on harry . he was so angry he could hardly speak . he managed to say , go -- cupboard -- stay -- no meals , before he collapsed into a chair , and aunt petunia had to run and get him a large brandy . harry lay in his dark cupboard much later , wishing he had a watch . he did n't know what time it was and he could n't be sure the dursleys were asleep yet . until they were , he could n't risk sneaking to the kitchen for some food . he 'd lived with the dursleys almost ten years , ten miserable years , as long as he could remember , ever since he 'd been a baby and his parents had died in that car crash . he could n't remember being in the car when his parents had died . sometimes , when he strained his memory during long hours in his cupboard , he came up with a strange vision : a blinding flash of green light and a burning pain on his forehead . this , he supposed , was the crash , though he could n't imagine where all the green light came from . he could n't remember his parents at all . his aunt and uncle never spoke about them , and of course he was forbidden to ask questions . there were no photographs of them in the house . when he had been younger , harry had dreamed and dreamed of some unknown relation coming to take him away , but it had never happened ; the dursleys were his only family . yet sometimes he thought ( or maybe hoped ) that strangers in the street seemed to know him . very strange strangers they were , too . a tiny man in a violet top hat had bowed to him once while out shopping with aunt petunia and dudley . after asking harry furiously if he knew the man , aunt petunia had rushed them out of the shop without buying anything . a wild-looking old woman dressed all in green had waved merrily at him once on a bus . a bald man in a very long purple coat had actually shaken his hand in the street the other day and then walked away without a word . the weirdest thing about all these people was the way they seemed to vanish the second harry tried to get a closer look . at school , harry had no one . everybody knew that dudley 's gang hated that odd harry potter in his baggy old clothes and broken glasses , and nobody liked to disagree with dudley 's gang .
